A 60-year-old male with a past medical history of asthma, spastic paraplegia, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, peptic ulcer disease, and tibial osteomyelitis post-infected hardware removal was admitted for altered mental status. He was admitted to the orthopedic service for infected hardware removal one month prior to the current admission. He was subsequently started on IV cefepime 2g every eight hours for tibial osteomyelitis and then discharged to a skilled nursing facility for six weeks. Approximately 17 days later, the staff at the nursing facility reported that the patient was delirious, slurring his speech, and pulling out his peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC) line in the night. He was then hospitalized at an outside facility for four days where he had an extensive workup, including a CT head, MRI head, and EEG without any conclusive etiology for his altered mental status. The EEG showed generalized slowing and evidence of metabolic encephalopathy and he was discharged. He returned to an outside emergency department three days later for persistent neurological symptoms, where he was found to have acute kidney injury. Following administration of IV fluids, he was discharged to his skilled nursing facility. His mental status did not improve. After consultation with the infectious disease team, the patient was admitted to our hospital for further workup. Upon admission, his vitals were unremarkable and physical examination showed confusion and disorientation without any other focal neurological deficits. Laboratory results were unremarkable except for an elevated creatinine of 1.8mg/dL (baseline 1-1.2mg/dL) indicative of unresolved acute kidney injury. Cefepime was discontinued, and the patient’s mental status and speech improved over the next 72 hours. Nephrology was consulted. After extensive workup, acute kidney injury was presumed to be secondary to cefepime toxicity with a component of acute tubular necrosis given the hyaline and granular casts seen on urinalysis. The patient was later discharged back to the facility where he had no further episodes of confusion or altered mental status