A 73-year-old female with a past medical history of chronic pancreatitis, type 2 diabetes mellitus, gastroesophageal reflux disease, lower gastrointestinal (GI) bleed, hypertension, paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, cerebrovascular accident, seizure disorder, and pulmonary embolism (PE) presented to an outside hospital after a reported seizure at her nursing home. Emergency medical services were called at the nursing home and the patient was reportedly hypoxic with oxygen saturation in the 70s on room air with subsequent development of agitation and lethargy after the seizure. The patient was transferred to an outside hospital's emergency department (ED), where additional tonic-clonic activity was noted. She subsequently developed hypotension with a blood pressure of 52/36 mmHg that was refractory to crystalloid intravenous fluid resuscitation. Central venous catheter (CVC) was placed and norepinephrine was started for persistent hypotension. Labs were notable for leukocytosis, troponin elevation, and low mixed venous saturation on CVC venous blood gas. The patient was subsequently transferred to a tertiary care facility cardiac intensive care unit for evaluation of cardiogenic shock.
Upon arrival, the patient was alert and following commands, but disoriented. She was still requiring supplemental oxygen and norepinephrine for hypotension. Given the concern for cardiogenic shock, a stat bedside transthoracic echocardiogram was obtained, which demonstrated a large pericardial effusion with tamponade physiology. The patient was urgently taken to the cardiac catheterization lab for pericardiocentesis with a drain placement. This yielded 580 ml of hemorrhagic fluid with rapid improvement in hemodynamics following drainage. During the pericardiocentesis, fluoroscopy demonstrated two embolized fragments of the IVC filter within the right ventricle (RV). Review of past imaging revealed that the embolized fragment was visualized on computer tomography (CT) of the chest one year and one month prior to presentation. Upon further investigation from family, it was discovered that the patient's Bard G2 retrievable IVC filter was placed in April 2007 in the context of a PE with concurrent GI bleed. Pericardial fluid culture was negative, and