This case involves a 50-year-old HIV-positive man who presented to his family physician in 2006 with extreme discomfort in his right knee.
The patient was diagnosed with HIV in 1990 and had been taking combination antiretroviral medication since 1995. Five years prior to the incident of right knee pain, he was diagnosed with osteonecrosis of the left lateral tibia. His rheumatologist prescribed Celebrex which managed the left knee pain well. However, the following year, the patient was diagnosed with cirrhosis of the liver resulting from his antiretroviral medications. Celebrex was discontinued because of the contraindication with liver disease, and Tylenol was initiated for his left knee pain. The patient considered this management plan to be acceptable, particularly in light of his life-threatening liver disease, which became his focus of care. His liver disease had stabilized, and his left knee pain was well managed when the current incident of right knee pain struck.
The patient presented with severe pain in his right knee and was unable to weight bear with his leg fully extended. Bone scan in February 2006 revealed osteonecrosis of the right knee, osteopenia in both hips, small fractures bilaterally in the second and third metatarsals, and osteonecrosis of the right medial femoral condyle. The endocrinologist prescribed weekly Fosimax, plus a high dose of calcium and vitamin D and K supplements. The patient preferred not to take Tylenol because of his liver disease, and so his rheumatologist prescribed Tramidol taken at night to relieve morning joint pain.
Nearly one year later, MRI showed osteonecrosis and a medial meniscal tear of the right knee (see ), and the patient was referred to an orthopedic surgeon to explore surgical options. The surgeon advised that minor debridement was not an option because of the lack of healthy bone, and that a total knee arthroplasty would likely be advised within the next two years. The patient was resistant to the surgical option because of his advanced liver disease and concern for potential complications under anesthesia.
The orthopedic