In this report, we present a case of a 57-year-old female patient with a 10 × 15 cm2 mesenteric cyst of the sigmoid colon that was excised laparoscopically and histopathology reported a cystadenoma. A 57-year-old female attended rapid access clinic complaining of left iliac fossa pain and swelling for ten months. She was reviewed by the Obsteric and Gynaecology team and an ultrasound scan of the pelvis was arranged which found a 116 × 94 × 76 mm3 cystic lesion probably from the left ovary. Following further investigations, (which were all normal) the patient was listed and consented for laparoscopic assisted vaginal hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oopherectomy and peritoneal washing. During the operation the Gynaecologist found a large 10 × 15 cm2 cyst attached to the mesentery of the sigmoid colon free from the ovaries. The operation was suspended and the on call general surgical team were called into theatre. A diagnostic laparoscopy was performed; all other organs were normal, however, due to the size it was difficult to assess the anatomy of the cyst and which other organs were involved, the only thing that was certain was this was not an ovarian cyst, therefore proceeding to operate would be risky. The on call consultant general surgeon did not see this as an emergency and suggested that the operation should be aborted and further investigations were required before proceeding with an operation on the cystic mass. An outpatient CT abdomen and pelvis scan plus a flexible sigmoidoscopy was arranged with an outpatient follow up appointment with the general surgeons. The flexible sigmoidoscopy came back as normal and the abdomino-pelvic CT scan revealed an 11 × 10 × 8 cm3 likely benign cyst but could not determine its origin (Figs and ).
Due to the persisting discomfort the patient was booked and consented for an elective laparoscopic removal of cyst with possibility of converting it to an open procedure due to the size of the mass. The operation was approached laparoscopically using two 12 mm por